Add new latency page (#182)
mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture: source/deployment-paradigms/latency-strategies.txt

.. _arch-center-latency-strategies:

=========================================
Multi-Region Latency Reduction Strategies
=========================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: onecol

> Multi-region {+service+} deployments can be used to enhance performance by reducing 
> latency. There are several factors that impact the latency in a multi-region 
> deployment that you should consider when designing your deployment architecture.
> 
> Factors Contributing to Latency
> -------------------------------
> 
> A fundamental factor in latency is the physical distance between users and 
> your application, between your application and your data, and between 
> {+cluster+} nodes. To reduce latency for read operations, then, it's crucial to 
> place both your application and data geographically closer to users. 

Reviewer: These two paragraphs are a bit confusing - is this page about how a multi-region architecture can reduce overall latency for a deployment? Or is it about how to reduce latency specifically for a multi-region deployment? 

Knowing that, then I think we might be able to streamline this a bit and get to the "why" sooner. I don't know the answer to the above question, so take this paragraph with a grain of salt, but I'm imagining something like:

```suggestion
A fundamental factor in latency is the physical distance between users and 
your application, between your application and your data, and between 
{+cluster+} nodes. To reduce latency for read operations in a multi-region deployment,
then, it's crucial to place both your application and data geographically closer to users. 
Consider the following factors that impact latency when designing your deployment architecture.
```

Reviewer: If we nix the H1, then the following headings would need to be updated from H2s to H1s.

> Replication Configuration Factors
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replication Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

> How you configure Replication also contributes to latency in a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How you configure replication also contributes to latency in a 
```

> multi-region deployment. Factors include the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multi-region deployment, including the following factors:
```

- **Write concern levels:** There is a trade-off between write durability and 
  write latency. The write concern level you configure (e.g., ``w: "majority"``) 
  defines replication across multiple data centers, potentially increasing 
  latency for more durable writes. 

- **Order of regions:** The order of regions in your configuration can determine 

>   the priority for the primary node location, which will impact write latency. 

Reviewer: Impact write latency how? Improve it or not?

- **Mirrored Reads:** Mirrored reads reduce the impact of primary elections 
  following an outage by pre-warming the caches on the secondary nodes. 

- **Read Preference:** By default, applications send read operations to the 
  primary member. However, you can configure the read preference to send read 
  operations to secondary members. By doing so, you ensure reads go to the 
  geographically closest cluster. 
  
  .. note:: 
  
     It is important to keep in mind that there is the possibility of a 

>      secondary returning stale data due to replication lag.

Reviewer: If "it is important", should this note admonition instead be an important admonition?

- **Data Distribution:** Distributing data across regions by using replica sets 
  or sharded clusters is an effective approach when your data is geographically 

>   oriented. For example, you have data that is only read from the EU, and other 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  oriented. For example, if you have data that is only read from the EU, and other 
```

  data that is only read in North America, you could create shards that distribute 
  that data appropriately. 

For more information, refer to :manual:`MongoDB Replication </replication>`.

> Network Configuration Factors
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Network Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

You can further reduce latency using the following network connectivity options: 

 - **Use Private Endpoints:** Private endpoints establish direct and secure 

>    connections between your application's virtual network and your Atlas cluster, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   connections between your application's virtual network and your |service| cluster, 
```
